EVERY generation has apocalyptic visions, can’t imagine its
continuance. 

In Rivette’s Paris nous appartient (1960), the exiled 
American communist journalist, experimenting
with Art Brut in his SRO, warns Anne of converging
super-militarized oligarchical death waves.

My apartment, which you’ll recall from last time, is bathed in
the sounds of a Red Bull event by the river. 

Men and women amplified, shouting and generating excitement 
that somehow gets shunted into product, religious techniques, 
walk back and forth wireless.

A small amount of movement or sound has come to signify a
mouse, a rebuke to systems of control by which people might
be stamped out, round like a nickel and grey, with tails trailing
and eyes bulging brown.

Citizens shouted very differently among their own remnants
and ruins, Roman and otherwise, on 2/15/03.

It was the largest mass event and first global manifestation, 
against war or anything else, on record. 

People detourned totalizing yelling into group demand, stamping 
the little silver cans into a huge reflective shield, straining 
to articulate what should follow, fighting
enervation with dissolved caffeine and sucrose.

The scale of the problem causes fatigue because people create
meaning in clan-sized groups.

Steve says there’s a study that says one can only love 200 in a life, 
a parameter for the processing of affiliation.

The same scale seems to underlie anarchism,
though my beliefs run to the bureaucratic materialism
that underlies communism, though it is by a shared technique, talking
to friends, and with the same result, a kind of communism, that I
have found myself able to articulate a politics, one that proceeds
from my affiliations.

Power, or the means for making and instantiating judgements,
is changed in scale by relations that form by agreement,
force, or ambient internalization. 

Every articulation proposes, produces, or reifies sets of relations.

The distribution of power touches every articulation.

Every articulation proposes relations, which form states.

The contradictions produced by power are shared, and their
articulation, by poets and others, is a real, if unwanted, function
within society. 

Poems and other media model other possible modes of power. 

On Saturdays, on Rain’s tiny dancefloor on N 5 Street in Williamsburg, 
where I was first brought by poets, the men of the neighborhood
admit me to a space of mutual movement that subsumes
in an explicit manner never approached on the street,
where I adjust my walk.

Power, an inevitable product of relations, necessarily alters
bodies, often damaging, even if invisio-neuronally, or actually
destroying them.

The mechanics by which power travels and changes scale,
through agreement, force, or ambient internalization, is
called politics. 

Politics does not address bodies as such,
except as instantiations of constructs in which power collects
or doesn’t. 

Such categories can have a directly physical extension,
like ‘food’, or a purely narrative function, like ‘justice’.

Narrative is a set of proposed links among artificially segmented
perceptions; narration is the act of proposing such
links.

Shifts in power correlate to alterations in relations, which
are physical. 

Relations can be augmented or protected by gloves,
cars, guns, neighborhoods, tractors, planes, lending rates,
coats, and computers.

It is to categories and catchments, or what get called subjects, rather
than to bodies, that judgements are ascribed.

In film and fiction, subjects are called characters.

Turning people into characters is what makes non-novel readers
so squeamish about fiction, since doing so, turning people into
products by reducing them to sets of attributes, desireable 
and undesireable, is a kind  commodification, one that mimics 
the market system that spawned fiction  in the 18th century 
and with which, necessary changes having been made, we are 
familiar today.

Imagining commodification to be a result of market logic
gets it backward, though, since turning people into products,
or containers for sets of attributes and affordances, is a
major part of sexual selection, a process regulated by mores
and other constraints through which people are treated as
acquirable wholes judged via various images of fitness
out of which market logic falls, with shopping being a relation 
in which the ‘partner’ doesn’t talk back or experience 
transference.

Turning people into characters is a very effective
political tool, since characters, like inanimate commodities, do not
suffer, die or react in real time.

Characters are constructed for performances
within narrow bandwidths that are very restricted
when compared with the actual conditions most people face.

Although characters, unlike horses and people, cannot
respond to an idea that takes the form of force, such as a lash
against a coach-and-six that carries the message ‘go’, it is as
characters that politics prepares people for power. 

Reduction to character is always possible, since
resistance requires more energy than acquiescence.

Attacking one’s material extension in space and attempting to
reduce one to it is the converse movement. 

Death as message or story. 

Let’s roll.

Rabbits, who have brains and bodies, are of course extraordinary,
and their fierce rabbity love, while occasionally seeming
aloof or unintelligible, is in fact one of the main model states.

. .

Art, or situations of partially suspended disbelief, of foregrounding,
of heightening or intentional flattening, of protected
description and inflated proposition, is a locus, in any
society at any scale, for staging relations as a kind of model.

By mutual agreements that do not differ from those of regular
interactions, art proposes, rather than fully instantiates,
sets of relations.

The relations art produces are held like eye contact.

Interactions around art, when they work, produce sensations
that require high levels of processing, so they tend to happen
in relatively protected spaces, never absolute or guaranteed,
analogous to airport cottages at Dayton or spartan dachas
outside of Reykjavík.

Deliberation requires a provisional affiliation, in the sense
of involuntarily imagining the consequences of sets of terms
and the relations they propose. 

Affiliation makes deliberation disturbing, because affiliation 
can never be fully provisional.

Affiliation lies behind objections to images of violence.

Spielberg claims to employ images of violence only within
highly motivated meaning structures, preferring models of
exchange based on art, as at the climax of Close Encounters of
the Third Kind (1977), when a French disco scientist and an
enormous extraplanetary craft undertake a musical rondo
under the auspices of a finally indulgent U.S. military, which
holds fire while a highly amplified, visually interpreted five
tone sequence is put forth, and is tentatively and then forcefully
taken up by the hovering vessel, which goes on to offer
fantastical variations upon it at speeds that only computers
and geniuses at the site can process, finally allowing a large
number of MIAs to be disgorged from the hull without incident,
along with a young blond boy who is the focus of the
movie’s driving mother love, counterpoint to Dreyfus’s signature
lone-male sublimations, followed by the letdown of the
anthropomorphic, infantilized aliens.

Ascribing decisions to character is an act of judgement.

Judgement creates relations.

Ascription is a kind of writing.

Writing is political.

Aesthetic experience, or pleasure in sharing in proposing
relations, can take place independently of explicit judgement.

Aestetics experience is itself a form of affiliation, which has in the past
led to critiques of the very ‘absorption’ that is necessary for
many of its forms. 

Truffault plays the scientist.

Because relations are always material and judgement is always
affiliation, in proposing sets of relations, any work that fails to
examine the material bases on which it is itself predicated, at
whatever level, risks contributing to its own misrecognition.

Appropriation perpetuates myths of baseless relations
and consequenceless judgement unbounded by materiality
or affiliation. 

The result is contradiction, a problem alternately
dramatized and parodied in Chabrol’s Les Biches (1968).

Young, striking and self-possessed in a manner that seems 
somehow greater (because incorporating reactionary classicism) 
than the impending soixante-huitards, Jacqueline Sassard's character 
produces, when asked her name early in the file, a contemptuous, 
clearly enunciated «je m’appelle ‘Why’».

The English word, doubly empty, delights the shiny mid-30s 
socialite character played by Stephane Audran, who appropriates 
Sassard’s Why, providing access to wealth and companionship that, 
when discontinued, eventually lead to her own character’s death. 

. .

FOR the formalist, affiliation is a kind of death, the death of
doubt, agency, and possibility. 

The exception is affiliation with method, taken by the formalist 
as a means for a critique of the fantasy of transcendent maximalist 
infinitude.

By imposing rules and proposing relations along strictly material
lines, formalisms can analogize the limits imposed by
resources and belief systems, tacit and explicit.

Formalism can surround, alter or reorder the material instantiations
of limits, revealing their provisionality. 

Formalism can release joy from obligation and projected perpetuity
through a ‘count your shit’ recursion, which ironically
reveals the infinite in combination.

Formalism can thus work against a default or dominant that
presents itself as eternal and inviolable by demonstrating
parallel and even random position-takings and sets of relations
as potentially equally meaningful and derived from similar
limits.

Method produces an oppositional position of its own, structured
play, that when taken as a model form of exchange can provide a medium
for imagining new sets of relations, but that when received as a product, 
confines its effects to that of politico-aesthetic ‘pressure valve’, or means
of discharging the energy produced by contradictions so that
they might remain in place.

Jauss’s restatement of beauty (1977), “the form in which aesthetic
experience presents itself,” forces one to talk about specific
instances and encounters, and encodes the impossibility of fully
generalizing about form. 

Because forms get fetishized into product, they change, seeking 
fresh access to the energy that inheres in contradiction, so that 
at one point, when further shifts seemed impossible, 
the ‘dematerialization’ of the art object was attempted, 
meaning there was an agreement among artists and others to treat 
encounters, procedures, and acts of documentation as art.

In Germinal (1885), Zola writes of the pressure valve effect 
of coffee and alcohol on workers.

Since it’s predicated on finitude, capitalism couldn’t work if
people didn’t die.

Like science, which proceeds, theoretically, out of passionate
materialist disinterest, but which, in actual practice, is almost
wholly market-driven, maintaining contradictions is a business
that produces its own class. 

I identify with that class, partly out a desire to master 
shifting social codes as a means of nonfamilial power, 
being beyond the house with the attorneys
who formalize the language of exchange, the academics
who undergird it, the journalists who naturalize it, the novelists
who fetishize it, and the satirists who ironize it.

What is often meant by ‘freedom’ is the possibility of the
acquisition of such codes.

Like other material acquisitions, codes become more expensive
the more they help increase the scale of relations. 

‘Cool’ is the attempt to recapture freedom by explicitly rejecting 
this dynamic, but its cooptation, and the anticipation of its cooptation, 
drive the provisionality and disposability of the codes and materials 
cool itself takes up.

The same process drives artistic communities.

Artists invited me to join Friendster repeatedly, and I tried to
turn the invitations to affiliation toward small actions of 5 or
15, but everyone with whom I spoke projected a need for definitions
and justifications to release them from fatigue,
which I saw as a defense against the perceived need for disaffiliation
from power, and which I could not produce on the
phone or in a bar.

I think this is one part where Miles believes I am not being honest
with myself, but the problem may be that the tone is not
fluid enough for the humor and irony to come through.

Fatigue is imbricated in the discourse of ‘time’, whereby 
one is consumed by work or attachment, and
cannot imagine undertaking further action and self-representation,
particularly in ‘public’, which implies submitting
to collective judgment.

Most attempts to operate ‘outside’ of collective judgment are represented
as criminal, as in Gun Crazy (1949), where the
lovers, on recognizing interlocking needs, skillsets,
self-representations, and physicalities, and attempting
to manifest them, discover them to be unsustainable at the highest 
levels without constant infusions of money. 

The discovery triggers, beyond need for shelter and sustenance,
feelings of rage and neglect that spill over into escalations
of the types of ‘jobs’ they do, including killing those
who seem to judge their acts, eventually leading to an escalation
in pursuit that leads to their being cornered,
or isolated without adaquate resources or means of further
travel, and locked into an inarticulate choice between imprisonment
or death. 

. .

ALL characters need names so that decisions and values can
be ascribed to them, and so do projections like teams.

Partial intersubjectivity allows one to absorb violence 
in the belief that it will not arrive at a scale large 
enough to destroy the group, or that one's death serves
a larger . 

Stonewall was a riot.

The mass proposition of changes in specific sets of relations,
protest, has been underminded by state agencies and corporations,
aggregate characters granted rights of property and
speech, that have developed practical tactics for preventing
the scale of actions from reaching a tipping point or for
making it look that way.

Fatigue gets overcome by ‘extraordinary’ events, like a
war or a fraudulent election, but it does not seem to get overcome
in the quotidian by people who feel relatively secure. 

An instance of what Skinner called "partial reinforcement," 
the lack of guaranteed employment blocks the impulse 
toward resistance. 

The idea of putting my body someplace in a resisting 
posture makes me afraid.

Outside of crisis, a legimating structure for doing so that directly
and coherently reflects one’s beliefs....

The articulation of contradiction can cause catharsis and abreaction,
the power of which can cause dis- and re-affiliation, a
threat to forms of power.

PARTIALLY because disaffiation is a kind of death, Fanon advocated
violence as a means to catharsis and abreaction, which are
sometimes produced by the destruction of bodies, and are real
material resources, even if invisio-neuronal. 

The trauma produced in survivors of violence, including those that inflict it,
negates any momentary cathartic benefit, because the longterm
consequences of violence include a tendency to replicate injury,
perpetuating a ‘cycle’ that acquires narrative justifications as necessary.

Fanon’s own “Colonial War and Mental Disorders” (1961)
can be read as registering instances of such replication, grounded
in specific acts arising from internalized conditions of domination
and oppression.

Semezdin Mehmedinovic’s Sarajevo Blues (1998) records instances 
of paramilitary beheadings within a non-colonial city that 
the perpetrators justify through citations of acts of violence 
from prior centuries.

Representations of violence often take the form of entertainment,
which can be a tool of control as well as a form of discursive
preparation, which most killings require, and which
usually reduces to a single character-trait:

“Someone who is threatening my life or that of someone I
love” as most primal and most often given to actual soldiers,
though video simulation and gaming also seem to suffice
—Hollywood death

“Someone who is in league with a force that is exploiting and
destroying us, and that will not recognize our condition”
—Maoist death

“Someone who is a barrier or threat to my expansion, and that
is impeding my extracting the full possible benefit from a situation”
—Capitalist death

“Someone who is staining our representation of the ideal, or
the all, and our ways of relating to it”
—Religious death

Agency, or decisions acted upon with resultant chains of
consequence, desired or undesired, produces contradictions
that manifest as fatigue. 

Feeling unequal to circumstance,
or as boredom, in the sense of feeling that all outcomes
can be anticipated, or as frustration, in the sense of
wanting cathartic resolution, which can be turned inward via
self-abnegation.

Most of the suicides I have imagined have been passive:
addressing the back of my head, in 1991, to the parking lot
window of a first floor apartment in Providence so that bullets,
whose trajectory would be perhaps a 20-degree-angle
from the blacktop, fired by no one in particular, might pass
between the burglar bars and into the cerebellum and stem,
the old breathing brain, making little holes just at the top of
the collar of the robe; or falling from an extremely fast-moving
car and skidding slowly and painlessly, because blacking
out, to a stop; or the gun fantasy of putting a fake plastic Uzi
in my yellow vinyl shoulderbag and taking the 4 or 5 train to
Wall Street, where I walk up to the barracades around the
Exchange, take out the gun and wave it in circles over my
head, drawing a rain of extremely accurate, high-powered
fire; but just now I became active, and could imagine exerting
enough force on the tongue of my belt so that it would
puncture the point just where the ribs part, making a kind of
lower stoma, and pulling up for a tiny blunt evisceration.

Because I have imagined my own death through narcissistic
fantasy, trying to imagine the deaths of others, as when reading
the New York Times, feels compromised by that same narcissism:
being slowly killed by silicosis in a rural Chinese factory
that cuts fake gems; disappeared and tortured to death
in Colómbia for making a neutral remark outside of Calí that
gets me onto the list of one or another paramilitary limpieza
faction; recruited as a soldier at age 10 and subsequently
being decapitated in the Great Lakes region of Africa; raped
and strangled in Gujarat in order to defile my religion as carried
by my gendered body; shot in the face by a fearful cop in
Harlem who has mistakenly invaded my home; bleeding to
death after being suddenly shot with an automatic weapon
while lined up at a coffee stand in Hebron; slashed in the
throat in Pakistan after being forced to proclaim my religious
affiliation and that of my kin; suffocating after being thrown
down a well in any number of places because of gender-based
resource allocation; or being killed in Kuwait by noncombat
weapons discharge while mobilizing for deployment.

Yet because the surface conditions of ‘my life’ depend of sets
of relations that produce those conditions, the attempt to
imagine and render them must inform any work that proceeds
from it, to the point that, in imagining extreme forms
of my own subjugation, I fantasize that in nuclear death the
brain is fast enough to complete, before vaporization, the
full-replay that some have reported, since a ‘good death’
requires preparation, and while the duration of the flashbacks
is reportedly long, the time elapsed, apparently, is not.

. .

FANON wrote in French, and French continues, in areas to
which it was forcibly brought, to be taken up in exigency and
desire as well as disgust and repudiation, to produce economic
effects for anyone whom it subsumes or engages, and to
retain, like any language, natural or artificial, accumulative
traces, some of which, for French, specifically remain from
when it was taken up, some sixty years after France took
Algeria, as Bergson’s phenomenological instrument of durée,
or duration, if not of time.

Time and duration depend on scale, in the sense that the sets
of relations that produce them, gravitational and otherwise,
are perceived as relatively stable and inviolate, though actually
localized and in flux.

Time now dominates perception to the point that people
take drugs to restore duration for short periods.
States, or dynamic, non-isolable arrangements of matter, succeed
each other; time’s incrementality marks, and thus represents,
different states.

Time assigns values to successive states, which are forced by
brains into three dimensions, with six tightly curled further
planes, unimaginable but modelable, exerting their own
pulls, which are manifest in the telepathy heightened by regular
congress between electively affinitive persons, discrete
units of what Foucault and Negri call biopower, which
Haraway finds an absurd and flaccid reduction, despite
Scarry’s demonstrations of the innumerable ways in which
that reduction is effected daily.

The more heightened such relations, the more character, in 
ecstasy, becomes what Holderlin in Hyperion (1798) calls soul,
and it assumes, in the throes of congress, classical pro-
portions, meaning that the relations affords access to further
dimensions, as in grief.

To imagine all states, or to pick a state and then project or
calculate its subsequent states from its trajectory, would be to
travel in time, if the body be held stable.
If any one configuration could be isolated and held in stasis,
it might form a ‘stop’ very unlike those for buses, where
states alter during idling in the same manner as when in
motion and the same internal fluctuations within the chassis
continue, as in Midnight Cowboy (1969), where Ratso’s death
does not alter the body’s course.

Nostalgia is the wish to reinstate collapsed relations. Fate is
the coding of a determinate universe, in the sense of a course
by which, given a certain configuration, energy will dissipate
along with the chains of consequence surrounding agency.
Free will is the manner in which senses maximize access to
possible relational configurations, with a pitch toward
destruction if unmet. There is a possible consciousness that
might comprehend all possible states, and thus all time, but
it is not necessary to imagine it.

Time and duration correlate to truth and fiction, both of
which are required for love, a means of navigating the violence
and involuntariness of attachment, as in Late Sping
(1949), where the widower father of the character played by
Setsuko Hara, a beautiful young woman who is on the cusp
reaching an age that will make her a less desirable match,
leads her to believe that he will remarry, so that she will shift
her primary attachment from him to her suitor. Truth is dick
shots on craigslist, or the petroleum element of vegetarian
duck. Ethics is a system for weighing competing goods, and
for assigning a value to relations, like shame.
Narrative is a set of proposed links among artificially segmented
perceptions marked by time; narration is the act of
proposing such links, even if untrue, in order to saturate
duration.

Dialects of English use of the subjunctive progressive to mark the
unreal, constantly revised present as never fully experienced, as in
Stalker (1979), where a glass of milk’s movement means either that
superhuman powers are acquired through catastrophe, or that one
moves a body without witness in belief.

I was sitting at home in these various states when the clock suddenly
went out and the fridge stopped. “In a few moments, will be clear
whether this was an electromagnetic pulse or a power failure.” Long
durée oddly calm, and then slowly lifted the phone. It worked.
